# Indoor-Modelling-Robotic-Path-Planning-and-Navigation
Compilation of algorithms for modelling indoor environments from 2D LiDAR point clouds, RRT-based path planning, and Gazebo ROS simulation

## Introduction
The project combines various computing principles and programming languages to provide a proof of concept of the technologies and algorithms used in the field of indoor modelling, robotic path planning, and navigation.

## Project Goals and Challenges
The final versions of the projects must be able to achieve the following:

<li>Indoor Modelling: Given 2-dimensional LiDAR scans of an indoor space at various heights, the task is to convert the scans into a 3-dimensional model that approximately represents the indoor space. The task requires knowledge of Light Detection and Ranging and the types of LiDAR available in the market. One particular LiDAR that we have used in this project is the RPLIDAR developed by SLAMTEC, which is a low-cost, low-power sensor typically used for 2D applications, due to limited access to hardware and costs. Going through their official documentation was necessary in order to integrate the sensor with our operating systems to collect the readings and understand the exact working of their sensor.

<li>Robotic Path Planning: Given a free configuration space, two end points for start and destination, coordinates of obstacles, the objective of the robot is to travel to the destination while avoiding all the obstacles in between, without any prior knowledge of the surroundings. The path should also be optimal. This project requires knowledge of path planning algorithms which are broadly classified into graph-based and sampling-based algorithms. Rapidly-Exploring Random Trees (RRT) are the most implemented and widely researched topic in this field, and the algorithm along with its variants are studied and implemented here. An extensive knowledge of the algorithm is necessary for this implementation, and to pin-point areas where high performance computing can be included to reduce some of the bottleneck in performance while generating the trees in the space.

<li>Indoor Navigation: This project is done in the Gazebo ROS simulator to understand the concept of autonomous indoor navigation. Given a 3-dimensional model of an indoor space, the robot deployed in the environment must first map the entire world, and know its relative position using Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (SLAM). Once the layout of the map is constructed, the robot uses RRT to sample random nodes across and construct tree-links while avoiding obstacles. The robot now has all the route maps between any 2 points in the map and with that knowledge, the robot can now traverse the region. Since the entire simulation is done in Gazebo ROS, knowledge of Linux OS was necessary to follow the instructions for deploying ROS in the same. Since the approach uses SLAM, we need to first understand how the robot first maps the world and then uses path planning algorithm while mapping to construct occupancy grid of obstacles and route-maps to navigate within the map.  
